Now I'm going to the assumptions
underlying the naïve bayes method.
The main one,
is independence of words in a sentence.
And I'll tell you why this can be a big
problem, when the method is applied.
Naïve bayes is a very simple model because
it doesn't require setting any custom
parameters.
This method is referred to as naïve,
because of the assumptions
it makes about the data.
The first assumption is independence
between the predictors or
features associated with each class.
And the second,
has to do with your validation set.
Let's explore each of these assumptions
and how they could affect your results.
To illustrate what independence
between features looks like,
let's look at the following sentence.
It is sunny and hot in the Sahara desert.
Naïve Bayes assumes that the words in
a piece of text are independent
of one another.
But as you can see,
this typically isn't the case,
the word sunny and hot often appear
together as they do in this example.
Taken together, they might also be
related to the thing they're describing,
like a beach or a desert.
So the words in the sentence are not
always necessarily independent of one
another.
But naïve bayes, assumes that they are,
this could lead you to under or
overestimate the conditional
probabilities of individual words.
When using a naïve bayes, for example,
if your task was to complete the sentence,
it's always cold and snowy in blank.
Naïve bayes might assign equal
probability to the words spring,
summer, fall and winter.
Even though from the context you can see
that winter should be the most likely
candidate And the next courses of
this specialization, you will be
introduced to some more sophisticated
methods, let's deal with this.
Another issue with naïve bayes is
that it relies on the distribution of
the training data sets.
A good data set, will contain
the same proportion of positive and
negative tweets as a random sample.
However, most of the available annotated
corporal are artificially balanced,
just like the data set you use for
the assignment.
And the real tweet stream,
positive tweets tend to occur more
often than their negative counterparts.
One reason for
this is that negative tweets,
might contain content that is banned
by the platform or muted by the user.
Such as inappropriate or
offensive vocabulary,
assuming that reality behaves
as your training corpus.
This could result in a very optimistic or
very pessimistic model.
There's a lot more on this, in the last
video of this module which analyzes
the sources of errors in naïve bayes.
Let's do a quick recap of
all this new information,
the assumption of independence and naïve
bayes is very difficult to guarantee.
But despite that, the model works
pretty well in certain situations.
And for the assignments in this module,
the relative frequency of positive and
negative tweets and
your training data sets,
needs to be balanced in order
to deliver an accurate results.
Now you understand the assumptions
that underlie the naïve bayes method.
What if it fails to perform well,
for some sentence in the next video,
I'll show you what to do in such cases.